Subject: Licensed Wireless RFQ

Okapi Communications together with HUBS and community network
operators on the West coast of Scotland is planning a high-capacity
backbone to link these networks together and to upstream connectivity
in Fort William and eventually Kyle of Lochalsh and Oban. The proposed
network spans some 200km of hills and sea.

Many of the communities involved operate their own local networks and
have done for some time. The purpose of this RFQ is to ascertain costs
for licensed wireless links to connect them together. Initial capacity
required on each link is in the neighbourhood of 100Mbps but should be
upgradeable to several hunderd Mbps. In all cases the interface should
be 1000BaseTX and the radio equipment should pass 802.1q and MPLS
frames without modification.

Sites germane to this RFQ are as follows:

    | Site |  Latitude | Longitude | Height |
    |------+-----------+-----------+--------|
    | ALC  | 56.827017 | -5.054316 |    261 |
    | EIG  | 56.883876 | -6.157622 |    231 |
    | GLB  | 57.240883 | -5.615765 |    374 |
    | KLE  | 56.868345 | -5.309940 |    444 |
    | MHC  | 56.838641 | -5.084208 |      9 |
    | RAN  | 56.878275 | -5.513331 |    291 |

The heights in the table are ground level in meters above sea
level. Masts are taken to be be 3m above ground level. Installation
will normally be undertaken by ourselves with outside assistance as
needed.

In total there are some 6-10 links involved in the project, most of
them medium-long range, however representative ones for which the
sites included in the above table were chosen are:

  * ALC - MHC: a short link
  * EIG - RAN: a medium distance link
  * EIG - KLE: a long link with no risk of tidal multipath
  * EIG - GLB: a long link with tidal multipath

For each of these representative links, please reply with
recommendations and pricing mentioning:

  * Frequency band
  * Radio equipment
  * Antennas
  * Mounting requirements
  * Any special requirements
  * Volume purchase discount scale

Please mind that this is a community driven endeavour and entirely not
for profit in nature.

About HUBS
----------

HUBS is a not-for-profit membership organisation of community network
operators. Its purpose is to facilitate operation at scale through
collective purchasing and pooling of engineering resources. HUBS is
currently facilities based in the South of Scotland.

http://hubs.net.uk/

About Okapi
-----------

Okapi Communications is an network engineering consultancy that
assists with design, implementation and operation of communications
infrastructure. Okapi is responsible for the operation of HUBS and
several of its members' networks.

http://okapi.cc/
http://okapi.mobi/
